# 书单


以下是一支从“入门到精通”的路径。只涉及到一个尖端方向。


（1）入门书：

1，《当代语言哲学导论》 William G.Lycan

以上这是供全无基础的人看的。

（2）不太友好的入门材料：

- Frege. G., 1892. ‘On Sense and Reference,’

- Russell, B., 1905. ‘On Denoting,’ Mind, 14: 479–93

- Russell, B., 1911. ‘Knowledge by Acquaintance and Knowledge by Description,’ Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, 11: 108-1283

- Kripke, S., 1980. Naming and Necessity. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.

- McGinn, C., 2015. Philosophy of Language: The Classics Explained. MIT Press

- Morris, M., 2006. An introduction to the philosophy of language. Cambridge University Press.



（3）入门辅助材料

- Kaplan, D.,1972. “What is Russell’s Theory of Descriptions?” In D. F. Pears (ed.), Bertrand Russell. Garden City, NY: Anchor Books

- Strawson, P. F.,1950. On referring. *Mind*, 320-344.

- Donnellan, K. S., 1966. Reference and Definite Descriptions.

- Soames, S.,2010. Philosophy of Language. Princeton University Press.

- Soames, S., 2014. The Analytic Tradition in Philosophy, Volume 1: The Founding Giants.



 （4）进阶材料


- Kaplan, D., 1989: “Demonstratives,” in J. Almog, H. Wettstein, and J. Perry (eds.), Themes From Kaplan. Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 481–563.

- Kaplan, D., 1989: “Afterthoughts,” in J. Almog, H. Wettstein, and J. Perry (eds.), Themes From Kaplan. Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 565–614.

- Stalnaker, R., 1978: Assertion.

- Stalnaker, R., 2004: Assertion Revisited: On the Interpretation of Two-Dimensional Modal Semantics, Philosophical Studies 118, 299- 322.

- Putnam, H., 1975. "Mind, Language and Reality". New York: Cambridge University Press.

- Putnam, H., 1975. The meaning of 'meaning'.

- Soames, S.,  2007. Actually.



 （5）进阶辅助材料

- Soames, S., 2002: Beyond Rigidity: The Unfinished Semantic Agenda of Naming and Necessity, New York: Oxford University Press.

- Salmon, N., 1981: Reference and Essence. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

- Stanley, J., 1997: “Names and Rigid Designation,” in Bob Hale and Crispin Wright (eds.), A Companion to the Philosophy of Language. Oxford: Blackwell, pp. 555–85.

- Jackson, F., 1998. Reference and Description Revisited. Noûs, 32, 201–218.

- Stalnaker, R., 1976. Possible worlds.

- Salmon, N., 1987. How to Measure the Standard Metre.


 （6）高阶材料



- Evans, G.,1982, The Varieties of Reference, Oxford: Oxford University Press.

- Evans, G., 1979, “Reference and Contingency”

- Chalmers, D. J., 2002. On sense and intension. Nous, 36(s16), 135-182.

- Chalmers, D. J., 2006. The foundations of two-dimensional semantics. Two-dimensional semantics, 55-140.

- Chalmers, D. J., 2002. The components of content.

- Jackson, F., 1998. From metaphysics to ethics.

- Jackson, F., 2004. Why we need A-intensions.

- Davies, M. and I. L. Humberstone, 1980, “Two Notions of Necessity”, Philosophical Studies, 38: 1–30.

- Davies, M., 2004. "Reference, Contingency, and the Two-Dimensional Framework,” Philosophical Studies, 118: 83–131

- Soames, S., 2005. Reference and Description: The Case Against Two-Dimensionalism. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

- Stalnaker, R., 1997. Reference and Necessity.




# 相关

- [有哪些「哲学从入门到精通」的书单值得推荐？](https://www.zhihu.com/question/35450033)
